Narrator: We're going to use
Boolean expressions
and "if/else" statements
and console input
to ask the user what kind
of music they want to hear.
And then use
fitMedia() function calls
to place the corresponding
kind of music into the DAW.
We'll start by asking
the user what they want to hear.
So I'm going to define
a variable.
I'll just call it "a"
and assign to it
the result of calling
a readInput() function.
And I'll ask the user,
"Do you like hip-hop music?
Type yes or no."
Now, I need to use
an "if" statement
with a Boolean expression
to figure out
what they actually typed in.
So, if a == "yes"
I want to play some hip-hop.
Else, if "a" did not equal
"yes," if it equaled "no"
or something else like that,
then I want to play
some other kind of music.
And so, in each of these blocks,
I need to put some fitMedia()
function calls,
so it'll place the appropriate
music into the DAW.
So, for the hip-hop case,
that's my "if" block.
First, I'll use println()
to say on the console
so they know what's going on,
"Hip-hop it is."
And then I've got two fitMedia()
function calls here plays
two different hip-hop sounds
on tracks 1 and 2 of the DAW.
And then I'll do something
similar on the "else" block,
but instead
of putting in hip-hop,
I'll put in some funk sounds.
So again I have
a println() function saying,
"Okay, here is some funk,"
and then two
fitMedia() function calls
placing two different
funk sounds
on tracks 1 and 2 of the DAW.
So now I can press run.
Asks me "do I like
hip-hop music, type yes or no."
I type in "yes"
and I get hip-hop.
[hip-hop music]
If I run the same script
but I type in "no,"
then I get the funk.
[funk music]
And there's one problem here:
Press run and I type in
"yes I like hip-hop music,"
but I use a capital "Y."
It says,
"Okay, here is some funk,"
and it gives me funk sounds.
The reason for that
is if my Boolean expression here
is checking if a equals "yes"
all lower-case.
And so it doesn't account
for different ways
I might type in the word "yes"
with different capitalizations.
So to catch all those cases,
I need to add more
to my Boolean expression.
So I need to see
if "a" equals "yes"
or "a" equals "Yes"
with a capital "Y"
or if "a" equals "Y-E-S,"
all capital.
So if any of those
three things are true,
this will now be true
and will execute the "if" block
and will put
the hip-hop music in.
So now, if I press run,
I can type in "YES" all capital,
and I'll get hip-hop
like I expected.